# Weekly Report - Week 8 (As of 10/19/2023)
## 10/12
### what is webhook 
> A webhook in web development is a method of augmenting or altering the behavior of a web page or web application with custom callbacks. These callbacks may be maintained, modified, and managed by third-party users and developers who may not necessarily be affiliated with the originating website or application.
### Task
- [x] figure out webhooks and how to add them via the Particle console

```javascript
const synth = new Tone.Synth().toDestination();

document.getElementById('playButton').addEventListener('click', () => {
    // const now = Tone.now();
    // synth.triggerAttackRelease("C4", "8n", now);
    // synth.triggerAttackRelease("E4", "8n", now + 0.5);
    // synth.triggerAttackRelease("G4", "8n", now + 1);

const now = Tone.now()
// trigger the attack immediately
synth.triggerAttack("C4", now)
// wait one second before triggering the release
synth.triggerRelease(now + 3)
});
```
My testing to see how to manage the decay time 
```
const synth = new Tone.Synth({
    envelope: {
        release: 3 // set release time as 3, we can change it
    }
}).toDestination();

document.getElementById('startButton').addEventListener('click', () => {
    // when getting data, playing music
    const now = Tone.now();
    synth.triggerAttack("C4", now);
});

document.getElementById('stopButton').addEventListener('click', () => {
    // when stop release it
    const now = Tone.now();
    synth.triggerRelease(now);
});
```
Jeff showed us these resources:
[edgeimpulse](https://edgeimpulse.com/)
[openprocessing](https://openprocessing.org/)

> On OpenProcessing.org, users can create sketches in the programming language called Processing, even before they create an account. Once they create an account, they can save sketches, comment, favorite and fork other sketches, follow other users, join groups to create themed collections.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UNW78Z8pvSU

## 10/14
### Task
- [x] figure out how to use webhook - Create a Particle.io Integration
- [ ] build cloud/web server 
- [ ] fetch data from cloud
### Webhooks
> Webhooks in the Particle ecosystem are used to facilitate communication between Particle devices and other web services. Essentially, when an event occurs on a Particle device, that event can trigger a webhook to send a message or data to another web service.
checked on website:
https://docs.particle.io/reference/cloud-apis/webhooks/

### How does webhooks work
>Webhooks are tightly integrated with Particle's event system. Devices have the ability to both publish events to the Particle cloud, as well as subscribe to events from the cloud.
>
>A webhook listens for a specific event published by a device. When this event is published, the webhook triggers a web request to a URL on the web. The request sent by the webhook can include information about the event, such as its name as well as any data included when the event was published.
>
>You can configure a webhook to make different types of web requests. The most common type of webhook request is a POST, which is a method of sending data to another web server. In the case of Particle webhooks, this would mean sending data from your devices to a third-party web service. Other types of web requests, like GET and PUT can also be made with webhooks.
>
>Often times, a web server you hit with a webhook will return data to you as a result of the request made. When this happens, your devices can subscribe to a specific event name to receive the response from the web server and use it in your firmware logic.
>
>The combination of webhooks with the Particle cloud's pub/sub event system creates a very efficient way for you to leverage online tools and services and integrate them into your connected product.
>
>Webhooks is one piece of a larger puzzle of Particle Integrations. We want to make it incredibly easy to send data from your devices wherever you need it. In the near future, Particle will offer branded integrations will further simplify the process of sending your data to useful web services. 
>
I started exploring if I can build a Node.js web server with CodePen. Found this CodePen Example.
https://codepen.io/imonn/pen/WNZvNd

### what is dom?
> The Document Object Model (DOM) is a programming interface for web documents. It represents the page so that programs can change the document structure, style, and content. The DOM represents the document as nodes and objects; that way, programming languages can interact with the page
> 
In my part, I set up this for testing:
```
document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', (event) => {
    const synths = {
        C4: new Tone.Synth({
            envelope: {
                release: 3 // set release time to 3 seconds
            }
        }).toDestination(),
        D4: new Tone.Synth({
            envelope: {
                release: 3 // set release time to 3 seconds
            }
        }).toDestination(),
        E4: new Tone.Synth({
            envelope: {
                release: 3 // set release time to 3 seconds
            }
        }).toDestination(),
        F4: new Tone.Synth({
            envelope: {
                release: 3 // set release time to 3 seconds
            }
        }).toDestination(),
    };
    
    document.getElementById('sensor1').addEventListener('click', () => {
        const now = Tone.now();
        synths.C4.triggerAttackRelease("C4", "3s", now);
    });
    
    document.getElementById('sensor2').addEventListener('click', () => {
        const now = Tone.now();
        synths.D4.triggerAttackRelease("D4", "3s", now);
    });
    
    document.getElementById('sensor3').addEventListener('click', () => {
        const now = Tone.now();
        synths.E4.triggerAttackRelease("E4", "3s", now);
    });
    
    document.getElementById('sensor4').addEventListener('click', () => {
        const now = Tone.now();
        synths.F4.triggerAttackRelease("F4", "3s", now);
    });
    
    
    
});
```

```
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">

<head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
    <title>WIP-sound</title>
</head>

<body>

    <button id="sensor1">sensor1 (C)</button>
    <button id="sensor2">sensor2 (D)</button>
    <button id="sensor3">sensor3 (E)</button>
    <button id="sensor4">sensor4 (F)</button>

    <script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/tone@latest/build/Tone.min.js"></script>
    <script src="script.js"></script>
</body>

</html>

```
## 10/17 
Considering the delay when triggering events via cloud data, we shifted to a better solution which is using [TouchDesigner](https://derivative.ca/showcase). 

particle console->
https://build.particle.io/shared_apps/652ca6e501c674011e9a0e36
https://openprocessing.org/sketch/2044325#

### 10/18 
We had a group meeting again and finished up our project! 

https://github.com/Berkeley-MDes/tdf-fa23-YuntingZh/assets/100269093/c16d1887-baca-4739-9236-b035483fa0d2


https://github.com/Berkeley-MDes/tdf-fa23-YuntingZh/assets/100269093/42898e4d-ab85-42f9-84d3-133edf272790

## Reflections && Speculations
### The Power of Webhooks: 
Prior to this week, I wasn't deeply familiar with webhooks. Delving into Particle’s ecosystem and exploring its integrations made me realize the flexibility and potential webhooks offer in IoT development and more.
### Adapting to Obstacles: 
We faced challenges. The shift to TouchDesigner was pivotal. It reminded me that while technology is a tool to achieve a goal, it's essential to be adaptive and find alternatives when one method doesn't work optimally.
### Collaboration and Resource Sharing: 
Our instructers shared resources were so invaluable. Collaborative learning and resource sharing are often underestimated but can significantly accelerate a project's progress.
### Integration of Visual and Auditory Data: 
While our focus was primarily on sound, TouchDesigner's inclusion hints at a multimedia experience where sound and visuals are intertwined. This could lead to immersive experiences, perhaps in virtual reality or augmented reality settings.
### Conclusion
In conclusion, this week has been a whirlwind of learning, adaptation, and exploration. With tools like particle2, Tone.js, and TouchDesigner, we're poised at the cusp of designing experiences that transcend these boundaries between digital design and physcial computing. The future is exciting, and I'm eager to see where these technologies take us next.
